{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Verdana;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs28    \b\fs32 Midi Sheet Music\fs28\par
\b0\par
\b   \b0   Copyright 2007-2012 Madhav Vaidyanthan\par
\b   \b0   Version 2.4\par
\b   \b0   http://midisheetmusic.sourceforge.net/\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  \ul What is Midi Sheet Music?\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\b   \b0   Midi Sheet Music is a free program for converting MIDI music files into\par
    sheet music.  It also highlights the notes as the music is played, both on a\par
    piano and on the sheet music.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Sheet Music Features\b0\par
\par
\b   \b0   * Displaying sheet music from MIDI music files\par
\b   \b0   * Printing the Sheet Music\par
\b   \b0   * Saving the Sheet Music as PNG images\par
\b   \b0   * Displaying the notes in different colors\par
\b   \b0   * Displaying the letters for each note\par
\b   \b0   * Selecting which MIDI Tracks to display\par
\b   \b0   * Combining MIDI Tracks into two staffs (left hand and right hand) for piano songs\par
\b   \b0   * Adjusting the key signature, time signature, and measure length\par
\b   \b0   * Transposing the notes up or down \par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Playback Features\b0\par
\par
\b   \b0   * Playing the MIDI music\par
\b   \b0   * Highlighting the piano notes as the music is played back\par
\b   \b0   * Highlighting the sheet music notes as the music is played back\par
\b   \b0   * Adjusting the speed of the playback\par
\b   \b0   * Selecting which MIDI Tracks to play\par
\b   \b0   * Selecting the instruments to use for each MIDI Track\par
\b   \b0   * Playing selected measures in a loop\par
\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  \ul Playback Panel\ulnone\par
\b0\par
\b   \b0   The Playback Panel at the top has the following options\par
\b0\par
\b   \b0  \b  Rewind\b0\par
\b   \b0   Rewind the music by one measure.  This is only applicable when the \par
\b   \b0   music is paused or stopped. \par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Play/Pause\b0\par
\b   \b0   Play or pause the music. The other options (rewind, fast forward, speed)\par
\b   \b0   do not work while the music is playing. If the sheet music is adjusted\par
\b   \b0   while the music is playing (tranposing notes, changing instruments, etc)\par
\b   \b0   the music will automatically be stopped.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Stop\b0\par
\b   \b0   Stop the music. \par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Fast Forward\b0\par
\b   \b0   Fast forward the music by one measure.  This is only applicable when the \par
\b   \b0   music is paused or stopped. \par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Speed\b0\par
\b   \b0   Change the speed of the music playback, from 1 to 100% of the original \par
\b   \b0   speed. This is only applicable when the music is paused or stopped. \par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Volume\b0\par
\b   \b0   Change the volume of the music.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  \ul Menu Options\ulnone\par
\b0\par
\b   \b0  \b  Open\b0\par
\b   \b0   Choose a MIDI file to open.  MIDI files generally have the extension .mid.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Close\b0\par
\b   \b0   Close the MIDI file.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Save As Images\b0\par
\b   \b0   Save the sheet music as PNG image files. \par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Print Preview\b0\par
\b   \b0   Show a preview of what the printed sheet music will look like.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Print\b0\par
\b   \b0   Print the sheet music.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Exit\b0\par
\b   \b0   Exit the Midi Sheet Music program.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  View\b0\par
\b   \b0   Zoom in or zoom out of the sheet music.\par
\b   \b0   The zoom level does not affect how the printed sheet music will look.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Scroll Horizontally/Vertically\b0\par
\b   \b0   Scroll the sheet music horizontally or vertically.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Small Notes/Large Notes\b0\par
\b   \b0   Create the sheet music using either small or large notes.  The note size\par
\b   \b0   affects how the printed sheet music will look.  With smaller notes, the\par
\b   \b0   sheet music will contain more measures and notes per page..\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Use Color\b0\par
\b   \b0   Display the sheet music with colored notes, using a separate color for\par
\b   \b0   each note in the 12-note scale.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Choose Color\b0\par
\b   \b0   Choose which colors to display for each note. Also, you can choose the\par
\b   \b0   color to use for highlighting notes during playback.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Select Tracks to Display\b0\par
\b   \b0   MIDI music files are divided into tracks, where each track generally\par
\b   \b0   represents a separate musical instrument.  For example, a MIDI file for\par
\b   \b0   a symphony may contain tracks for a flute, oboe, violin, piano, etc.\par
\b   \b0   The Tracks menu allows the user to select which tracks to display the\par
\b   \b0   sheet music for.  Often, the user will want sheet music only for a \par
\b   \b0   particular instrument.\par
\par
\b   \b0   When playing the MIDI music, only the selected tracks will be played.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Select Tracks to Mute\b0\par
\b   \b0   Mute the selected tracks during playback, but still display the tracks.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Show One Staff Per Track\b0\par
\b   \b0   Display each MIDI track in a separate staff.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Split Track Into Two Staffs\b0\par
\b   \b0   Split a single track into two staffs, a lower and upper staff.  This option is\par
 \b   \b0  intended for piano sheet music, which usually consists of two staffs, a\par
 \b   \b0  left hand staff and right hand staff.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Combine All Tracks Into Two Staffs\b0\par
\b   \b0   Combine all the tracks into two staffs, a lower and upper staff.  This \par
\b   \b0   option is intended for piano sheet music, which usually consists of two\par
\b   \b0   staffs, a left hand staff and right hand staff.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Choose Instruments\b0\par
\b   \b0   Select what instruments to use for each MIDI track during playback.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Key Signature\b0\par
\b   \b0   Change the key signature used when displaying the music. This does not\par
\b   \b0   change the note values (see Transpose below), only the key signature.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Time Signature\b0\par
\b   \b0   Choose the time signature to use when creating the sheet music, such\par
\b   \b0   as 3/4 or 4/4.  By default, the time signature specified in the MIDI file \par
\b   \b0   will be used.  However, on occasion, that time signature may be \par
 \b   \b0  absent.  This menu allows the user to override the default time \par
\b   \b0   signature.\par
\par
\b   \b0   The time signature only affects the placement of the measures (the\par
\b   \b0   vertical bars).  The note placement and note durations (quarter note,\par
\b   \b0   eighth note, etc) are not affected by this option.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Transpose\b0\par
\b   \b0   Transpose the notes up or down. This affects both the sheet music, and\par
\b   \b0   the sound of the notes during playback.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Shift Notes\b0\par
\b   \b0   Shift the note placement either left or right.  The note duration and\par
\b   \b0   measure length are not affected by this option.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Measure Length\b0\par
\b   \b0   Choose the length of each measure, in pulses.  This option not only\par
\b   \b0   affects the measure lengths (vertical bars), but also the note durations\par
\b   \b0   (quarter note, eight note, etc).  For example, if the measure length\par
 \b   \b0  is doubled from 500 pulses to 1000 pulses, then notes that were \par
\b   \b0   previously quarter notes would become eighth notes.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Combine Notes Within Interval\b0\par
\b   \b0   Combine notes within the given interval (in milliseconds) into the same\par
\b   \b0   chord. Often, when MIDI music is recorded, notes that belong to the same\par
\b   \b0   chord are not played at exactly the same time, and the 'start' time of\par
\b   \b0   each note varies by several milliseconds.  When displaying the sheet music,\par
\b   \b0   each note varies by several milliseconds.  However, the sheet music should \par
\b   \b0   still display the notes as a single chord. This option determines the \par
\b   \b0   interval for combining notes into the same chord.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Show Note Letters\b0\par
\b   \b0   Display the note letters next to each note in the sheet music.\par
\b   \b0   You can display either English letters (C, C#), Do-Re-Mi, or Numbers.\par
\b   \b0   With Fixed Do-Re-Mi and Numbers, Do (number 1) is always the letter C.\par
\b   \b0   With Movable Do-Re-Mi and numbers, Do (number 1) is the first letter of the key signature.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Show Lyrics\b0\par
\b   \b0   If the MIDI file contains lyrics, display them underneath the notes.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Show Measure Numbers\b0\par
\b   \b0   Display the measure numbers in each staff.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Play Measures in a Loop\b0\par
\b   \b0   Play a subset of measures continuously in a loop. This it useful for \par
\b   \b0   learning small parts of a song at a time.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  About\b0\par
\b   \b0   Display the Midi Sheet Music version and copyright notice.\par
\par
\b   \b0  \b  Help Contents\par
  \b0   Display this Help Content dialog, which explains the usage of each menu\par
\b   \b0   item.\par
\par
}
 
